Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to go over an example set of solutions for the auto encoders exercise.
Let's get started.
OK.
Here we are at the auto encoder exercise notebook.
We went ahead and ran the imports here and then we'll read in the data by running that cell.
Let's go ahead and display the data frame.
Just say data to show that.
And here we can see the various food categories as well as the four countries.
Next task was to transpose the data frame.
So if you just Google search data frame transpose plus pandas or if you look rather documentation you'll
realize there's a transpose method.
And we previously discussed this when talking about the scribe.
So if you run that they'll basically kind of rotate or transpose the data frame.
So now we have these four countries as my rows.
So I had this nice little heat map.
However it's pretty hard to actually distinguish the different countries from each other.
So let's go ahead and complete this task in order to actually plot out this heat map and we can do this
a variety of ways but essentially we're just going to call essence the heat map and you can either call
it on the original data frame or the transposed data frame.
If you just run S.A. heat map you'll get kind of a smaller figure.
So you can always enlarge it by saying Pulte figure fig size is equal to and then say something a little
larger because there's something like five by four or 10 by eight etc. Actually I think 10 by eight
will make it larger here.
It's going to run that.
And there we go.
So you can either run it this way or as discussed you can run the transposed way ADF transpose and see
it as such but either way it's a little hard to distinguish the differences between these four countries
just through a heat map.
So we're going to do is we'll go ahead and run the imports necessary to build out our auto encoder.
So let's first say import tensor flow or we'll say from tensor flow that carries top models import a
sequential model and then from tensor flow that carries the layers import dense.
And if you want to use the stochastic gradient descent optimization you can import that as well.
We'll go ahead and just use atom as our optimizer.
So let's go ahead and and we'll go ahead and use stochastic gradient descent as our optimizer and to
use that will simply say from tensor flow that curious cares to optimize ours import as she.
Go ahead and run that.
And so now we have our imports.
Let's go ahead and create the encoder lots of ways.
Good on this but here I'll just say encoder is equal to an instance of sequential and we'll follow what
the task 7 which is a dense layer starting with eight neurons as a unit.
Then the activation function of rectified linear unit and then we have to specify here the input shape
is equal to starting at 17.
So you go from 17 straight to eight and then next here for the next layer we'll go from that eight.
So add another then Slayer down from that eight to the four activation function equal to rectified linear
unit and it's up to you if you want you can continue specifying the input shape from before but if you
just stack these right on top of each other you don't necessarily have to.
So optionally you can keep specifying input shape like this from the previous layer just to make sure
you keep your layers in order kind of in your own mind but really it's not necessary because we're adding
it in order right after the previous layer.
So say encoder and then finally add in dance.
Let's go ahead bring it down the two units and an activation function of rectified layer unit.
OK.
So there's our encoder.
Next we're gonna create the decoder essentially operates the exact opposite.
So we'll say a decoder is equal to the sequential model and then we'll add in those dense layers will
say dance units here.
It's gonna go starting at 4 with the activation function for a rectified linear unit taking in our input
shape as to so we're call that this too right here is the final layer of the encoder and it's kind of
the middle hidden layer throughout the entire auto encoder and then we'll add in basically in reverse
what the encoder is.
So then units here is going to be equal to 8 activation is equal to rectified linear unit and then he
will say decoder add will add in dance and here we're gonna expand it back out to the final 17 neurons.
Same as before activation function equal to rectified linear unit and then what we'll do here is complete
that decoder.
Then after that we're going to be doing is will simply say create the auto encoder combination which
is auto encoder is equal to sequential and then encoder with decoder
then beyond that will say auto encoder and we'll compile it.
The loss here because it's continuous value should be mean squared error.
And let's go ahead and say our optimizer is equal to stochastic gradient descent and we'll start up
the learning rate of one point five.
Go ahead and have that.
Then we'll create our min max scalar to scale the data and we're going to do is make sure we transpose
the data since really what we have here are 14 feature columns and only four rows.
So one per country.
So to do this we'll say from S.K. learn not pre processing.
Go ahead and import min max scalar create an instance of our scalar a scalar is equal to men Max scalar
create the scaled version of our data frame so say scaled the f is equal to scalar and we'll simply
just fit transform on everything.
So fit.
Transform except recall here will say fit transform on transpose and to make sure it's an empire it
will say values after that.
So then note here the shape of our scaled D F The asked for the shape here it's for rose by 17 features
not the time to fit the auto encoder to the scale data for fifteen epochs.
Go ahead and do that will say auto encoder fit scaled the F scale D F epochs go ahead and run it for
fifteen run that should be very fast because it's extremely small data set and then next we'll run the
scale data through only the encoder and predict the reduced dimensionality output.
So in that case just as we did in the very first couple lecturer we said encoded two dimensional version
is equal to encoder that predict scaled data frame.
So after running that encoded to that marginality you should get probably something that looks like
this on the pending on how many epochs you ran for and your particular random initialization you may
actually see an entire column B zeros.
So keep that in mind let's go ahead and join the encoded two dimensional data of the original countries
index.
So when all we can do that is by simply saying the following.
Recall that if I say DIA transpose that index is the same as grabbing the actual columns.
So have England Wales Scotland and Northern Ireland.
So I'll say my final results are equal to P the data frame where my data is the encoded 2 dimensional
version my index is equal to the F transpose that index and then finally lets say my columns are C1
and C2.
So two subcomponents that are from the very middle hidden layer.
So C want to see two those are just generic names I chose.
OK so if I take a look at my results I have this data frame and what I'm going to do is I'm going to
say results is equal to results.
Resets index in order to have something that looks like this.
Which means I can actually now plot C1 C2 and then labeled by index if a scatter plot so I can do that
we'll see more to say seaborne scatter plot x equal to see one y equal to C2.
That's the reduced dimensionality we'll say theta is equal to results and let's say Hugh is equal to
index run that and here we can see that Northern Ireland very different from England Wales and Scotland
and we can see Wales is also quite different from England and Scotland.
So you should've gotten something that's pretty similar behaviour essentially showing you that Northern
Ireland quite different from the other three.
And if you got differentiation between the remaining three as well that's OK as well which you should
notice is the two most similar ones on your plot should hopefully have been England and Scotland.
So two closest points on your plot should be England Scotland and then the furthest away from that from
the other three should be Northern Ireland depending on your auto encoder.
Wales might have been differentiated further or closer to England and Scotland.
OK so keep mine mind once you actually go back and look at the data and table it makes sense.
If you go back to the data table you'll notice that the Northern Irish actually eat way more grams of
fresh potatoes and far fewer grams of things like fresh fruits cheese fish and alcoholic drink.
So things that are actually difficult to interpret just by looking at the raw data.
So it's a good sign that the structure we visualise actually reflects a big fact and real world geography
since Northern Ireland is the only of those four countries.
It's not on the actual island of Great Britain.
Okay.
And we have a little link to this video in case you're confused over the differences between England
UK and Great Britain.
All right.
So that's it for this exercise.
I hope you enjoyed it as a practical application for dimensionality reduction.
With autumn encoders thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.